# Welcome to concept-setup and Ansible

= Introduction =

As already mentioned on the main page all is
organized via Ansible. That tools is a great
for provisioning of machines and also a good
documentation for environment and processes.

The main file play.yml is the startup. It's
pretty simple just defining in order the roles
required to create or adjust your current
environment.

= The apt role =

The apt role is just a simple role for installing
packages when you have a Debian derived system.
The list of packages to be installed are defined
in the inventory (local/group_vars/all). There's
a variable apt_packages. Unfortunately you have
to organize a variable for each package system
since the names of the packages differ often.

= The git role =

The git role is mainly to organize the .gitconfig
since you should have user name and your email
configured and some useful options like coloring,
your favorite editor and possibly some aliases.
Please refer to the Git documentation if you need
more.

Also a custom bash prompt is installed that does
show you details like branch names and the status
while you are in the repository path. There are
other implementations (if you like); I have choosen
one I found myself useful.

= The vim role =

Of course you might prefer Emacs or Nano. Feel free
to create an own role for it. The vim roles installs
a .vimrc and a lot of plugins. if you are interested
in the details please read the documentation of the
individual plugins which are often very good. Just
have a look for the url's which are also listed in
the group vars (all file). I'm using the plugin manager
pathogen.

= FAQ =

== Getting facts of local host? ==
This can be called at any location in your machine!
The output is the data in JSON format written to stdout.

{{{
ansible -m setup localhost
}}}


